---
title: My Time at PeerXP
author: Arjun
date: 2022-06-02
tags: database
---

## What I worked on

The primary SaaS product (VegaMaster or VM for short) provided customers with premium features of GitLab (GL) at a lower price.
GitLab Premium costs $99/user/month, which is exorbitantly high. Our product (VM) provided the core features requested by most customers for 1/10th the price.

The main features included
- Branch protections: Users could configure who could push/merge to what branches, and if it required approval from a list of users. I wrote Git hooks in Bash to communicate with the GitLab server to enforce the rules. 
- Groups: GitLab does not provide any feature to group users/repos. Our product offered this feature. This would allow customers to create groups, and any settings configured to the group would be applied to the users/repos in the groups. A simple but powerful feature that saved the users a lot of time.
- Custom CI/CD workflows: Users could setup custom CI/CD workflows that would communicate with their GitLab server.
- Low Code Automation: Configure what actions should occur when certain events are triggered.

## Fun things I built

- **READ THIS!** Since I had to build a lot of Django applciations (we had other projects too), I got annoyed with setting up the email functionality everytime. I wrote an email service/web app that could integrate with the already existing or new Django apps. I just had to make an API call from the web apps rather than set it up individually. My CEO loved it and asked me to implement rate limiting and access tokens with user scopes. A client heard about this and ended up requesting one for themselves.

- To onboard users to the VegaMaster, users had to create an Access Token on GitLab and copy the value and store in our product. This led to few issues since the token had to follow a specific format and this was not the safest practice. A lot of users had difficulty creating an account due to this token. I looked into OAuth and decided to implement it. Now only the admin had to login to our product, and the other users would be automatically enrolled into the product. This reduced onboarding time from days/hours to a couple of minutes.

- After discussing with the customers I suggested a few features, which included blacklisting certain repos/users on VM since some projects may have to comply with certain regulations. I implemented this and the customers loved it since they themselves did not know that they would require this in the future.

- Decided to use UUIDs over IDs since this was a SaaS application and certain IDs in URLs could be used to extract info about other customers. I know this sounds basic but this was something I came up with my own and then realized that this is how it's done in the industry.

- The application was hosted on the customer's server. So I decided to host an obfuscated version of the Django app on their server to prevent leaking the source code or any sort of reverse engineering.

- Apart from this I would generally take part in meetings to understand the product from a business POV. This helped in identifying features/problems we could possibly run into in the future. I would also raise issues on how features could be exploited by end-users and we would come up with fixes in the planning stage, which is way better than having customers come and complain about.
